https://ardc.edu.au/resource/fair-data-self-assessment-tool/

Questions:
Findable
- Does the dataset have any identifiers assigned?
- Is the dataset identifier included in all metadata records/files describing the data?
- How is the data described by a metadata record?
- What type of searchable repository or registry is the metadata record in?
Accessible
- How accessible is the data?
- Is the data available online once access has been approved?
- Will the metadata record be available even if the data is no longer available?
Interoperable
- What (file) format(s) is the data available in?
- What best describes the types of vocabularies used to describe/define the data elements?
- How is the relationship to other data and resources described in the metadata?
Reusable
- Which of the following best describes the licence/usage rights assigned to the data and included in the metadata record?
- How much provenance information has been captured to facilitate data reuse?

Result: 76% for GEO dataset, 95% ideally
Missing: Accessible, because for "data available online without.." using Zenodo requires file download
Reusability, because dataset shows no "rights" information, just few "provenance" information

https://crosslateral.com.au/fair-tool.html
Findable
- Does the dataset have any identifiers assigned?
- Is the dataset identifier included in all metadata records/files describing the data?
- How is the data described with metadata?
- What type of repository or registry is the metadata record in?
Accessible
- How accessible is the data?
- How much provenance information has been captured to facilitate data reuse?

Result: 82% for GEO dataset, 97% ideally
Missing: Accessible, because for "data available online without.." using Zenodo requires file download
         Reusable, because no license information, provenance partially recorded

https://wrco.ufpb.br/fair/index.html

FINDABLE​
F1. (Meta)data is assigned a persistent, unique and global identifier.
F2. Data is described with rich metadata.
F3. Metadata clearly and explicitly include the identifier of the data it describes.
F4. (Meta)data are recorded or indexed in a searchable resource.
ACCESSIBLE​
A1. (Meta)data are retrievable by their identifier using a standardized communication protocol .
A1.1. The protocol is open, free and universally implementable.
A1.2. The protocol enables an authentication and authorization procedure, when necessary.
A2. Metadata is accessible even when the data is no longer available.
INTEROPERABLE​
I1. (Meta)data uses a formal, accessible, shared and widely applicable language to represent knowledge.
I2. (Meta)data use vocabularies that follow the FAIR Principles.
I3. (Meta)data include qualified references to other (meta)data.
REUSABLE​
R1. (Meta)data are richly described with a plurality of precise and relevant attributes.
R1.1. (Meta)data are made available with a clear and accessible data usage license.
R1.2. (Meta)data are associated with a detailed provenance .
R1.3. The (meta)data conforms to community standards relevant to the .

Result: 81% for GEO dataset, 94.5% ideally
Missing: Accessible, because for "data available online without.." using Zenodo requires file download
        Reusable: license missing, provenance not detailed
        Metadata comply just with generic standards (Generic Patterns)


https://nfdi4culture.de/services/fair-check

Findable
Do your data (records) have a globally unique and permanently persistent identifier (PID) so that they can be cited? (E. g. a DOI or URN. A pure http URL address is not a PID).
Does your metadata have a globally unique and persistent identifier (e. g. a DOI, URN)?
Do you use persistent author identification?
Is the data described with metadata so that it can be found later on and understood by subsequent users?
Is all of this information machine readable?
Do you feel that your metadata is as detailed as possible? Or could you provide even more details?
Is it ensured that metadata and the data itself clearly refer to each other?
Are the data and metadata indexed in at least one searchable resource?
Is there the possibilty of structured entry and search of the metadata, e.g. by providing a form with specific fields or by providing an XML schema? Is authority data referenced in the metadata?

Accessible
Can the data be retrieved via their identifier without specialized tools (e.g. via HTTP(S) or FTP protocol)? That is, can any person with a computer and an internet connection access at least the metadata at no charge and without barriers? (E. g., not on social networks that require logging in).
Does the protocol of the platform on which the data was uploaded support authentication and rights management if required (e.g., for copyrighted material)
Is there a strategy in place to ensure that the data, or at least the metadata, remains preserved and accessible, even after the end of the project, termination of operations, or when a data publication is withdrawn?
In addition to the previous question, is this presented transparently?

Interoperable
Does the data and metadata use a form that can be easily shared and interpreted?
Do you use controlled vocabularies / ontologies / thesauri?
Do you use standard programming languages and formats of your discipline?
Or does your data use at least formats that allow conversion to standards without loss of information?
Do the data and the metadata contain vocabularies which themselves comply with the FAIR principles?
Does the (meta)data include qualified references to other (meta)data (via PIDs)?That is, are data sets referenced to each other, for example, via corresponding metadata fields (e. g. relatedIdentifer, relationType)? Do you use controlled vocabularies to represent relationships between data?

Reusable
Is there information on the completeness, the context of origin and the quality of the data (also in all sublevels or subsets)?
Is there versioning of the data and metadata?
Does the metadata contain information about how the data may be used? That is, is there a machine- and human-readable license statement (e.g. Creative Commons or rightsstatements.org)?
Are there differentiated data usage information and license statements for different components (e. g. text, images, audio)?
Is there machine and human readable information on how the data was created?
Is there machine- and human-readable information on how the data was processed? (This also includes software-based transformation processes, etc.)
Do the data and metadata comply with subject-relevant standards?

Missing:
- persistent author identification
- versioning of data and metadata
- Do the data and the metadata contain vocabularies which themselves comply with the FAIR principles?
- license, provenance
- Is there machine and human readable information on how the data was created?
- Is there machine- and human-readable information on how the data was processed? 